We look today at a famous problem known as the knapsack problem. The task is to fill a knapsack that can carry objects of a known total weight—the capacity—with objects of a given set—each object having a given weight and value—in such a way as to maximize the sum of the values of the objects. Since any individual object is subject to a binary decision to either take it or leave it, this variant of the knapsack problem is known as the 0/1 knapsack.

The usual algorithm uses dynamic programming on the recurrence expression V[i,w] = max(V[i−1,w], vi + V[i−1,w−wi]), where V[i,w] is the maximum value of a knapsack of capacity w using the first i objects (which must be arranged by increasing weight), vi is the value of the ith object, and wi is the weight of the ith object. The program builds up the V matrix, starting from V[0,w] = 0, for all weights 0 ≤ w ≤ W and all sets of objects 1 ≤ i ≤ n, where n is the number of objects available. The answer is V[n,W].

Your task is to write a function that implements the knapsack algorithm. When you are finished, you are welcome to read or run a suggested solution, or to post your own solution or discuss the exercise in the comments below.

According to legend, there is a temple in Hanoi where are located sixty-four golden rings of graduated sizes and three diamond towers. Each day, the monks of the temple move a ring from one tower to another according to the rule that only one ring may be moved each day, that a single move consists of taking the highest ring from one tower and placing it on another tower, and that no ring may be placed on top of a smaller ring. The rings and towers were placed at the beginning of the world, and the monks have toiled through the ages to move all the rings from the designated starting tower to the designated finishing tower, at each day making the move that minimizes the total number of moves required. The world will end when the monks complete their work.

Actually, there is no legend; the story was concocted as a mathematical puzzle by Edouard Lucas, whom we have met in our work on primality testing. The program that determines the sequence of moves is often used as a demonstration of recursion: to move five rings from the first tower to the second, first move four rings from the first tower to the third, then move the fifth ring from the first tower to the second, then move four rings from the third tower to the second. To move four rings from the first tower to the third, first move three rings from … There is also an iterative solution, but I can never remember it, and the recursive solution is so simple that it’s the one I always use.

Your task is to write the program that calculates the sequence of moves that solved the Tower of Hanoi using the fewest number of moves. When you are finished, you are welcome to read or run a suggested solution, or to post your own solution or discuss the exercise in the comments below.

A famous problem of computer science is the knapsack problem, in which you are to find a combination of items from a population that sums to a given target, often with some kind of constraint such as maximizing the value of the items. In today’s problem we want to find the first possible combination of k integers from a stream of positive integers that sum to n. For instance, given the input stream 4, 8, 9, 2, 10, 2, 17, 2, 12, 4, 5, …, we want to find the knapsack containing 4, 2, 10, 2, 2 immediately after reading the third 2, without reading the 12, 4, 5 that follow it.

Your task is to write a program that takes parameters k and n and an input stream and returns the first possible knapsack. When you are finished, you are welcome to read or run a suggested solution, or to post your own solution or discuss the exercise in the comments below.

One of the most fundamental operations in computing is to evaluate an arithmetic expression, observing the precedences and associativities of the operators. For instance, given the expression 3+4*5, the multiplication is performed first, then the addition, giving a result of 23. Parentheses may change the order of evaluation, so that (3+4)*5 is 35. Today’s task is to write a program that takes as input a string containing an arithmetic expression and returns as output the result of evaluating that expression.

The usual approach to this task is to write a parser that identifies each element of the expression, evaluates them, and combines them into a solution. The parser is driven by a grammar that enumerates the various elements; the usual grammar for arithmetic expressions is:

expr -> term | expr + term | expr - term
term -> factor | term * factor | term / factor
factor -> number | ( expr )

Here -> and | are metasymbols of the grammar, +, -, *, /, ( and ) are operator literals, and expr, term, factor and number are operands; it’s not shown above, but a number is and integer consisting of either 0 or a sequence of digits not starting with 0, with an optional leading - sign. Blanks anywhere in the expression, even between the digits of a number, are ignored.

The evaluator consists of a set of mutually recursive functions that each recognize one metastatement of the grammar, plus a driver that accepts an input string and returns the result, all organized as dictated by the grammar.

As an example, consider the input string (3+4)*5. The driver passes the input to a function that recognizes expressions. Since the metastatement for expressions expects a term, that function immediately passes the input to a function that recognizes terms. Then, since the metastatement for terms expects a factor, that function immediately passes the input to a function that recognizes factors. That functions recognizes the opening parenthesis and calls the function that recognizes expressions to evaluate what is inside the parenthesis. Again, the expression metastatement looks for a term, and the term metastatement looks for a factor, and the factor metastatement looks for a number, which it finds, so it returns 3 to the term metatstatment, which returns 3 to the expression metastatement. Then the expression metastatement recognizes the + sign and goes next to the 4. The expression metastatement calls the term metastatement, which calls the factor metastatement, which identifies the 4 and passes it back to the term metastatement, which passes it back to the expressions metastatement, which adds it to 3 giving a result of 7. Now the expression metastatement is satisfied because the next input character is not a +, - or expression, so it returns the 7 to the expression that was called within the parentheses of the factor metastatement. The next character is a closing parenthesis, so the factor metastatement is complete, and passes back the 7 to the term metastatement. Now the next character is *, which is recognized by the term metastatement, which passes the remainder of the input string, the 5 character, to the factor metastatement. Now the factor metastatement recognizes the number 5 and returns it to the term metastatement, which multiplies it by 7 producing a result of 35. The result is passed back to the expression metastatement, which recognizes that the expression is complete, so it passes the result 35 back to the driver function, which outputs the result. Whew! Aren’t you glad you have a computer to do all of that work for you?

Your task is to write a function that evaluates an infix arithmetic expression. When you are finished, you are welcome to read or run a suggested solution, or to post your own solution or discuss the exercise in the comments below.

Baker, Cooper, Fletcher, Miller and Smith live on different floors of an apartment house that contains only five floors. Baker does not live on the top floor. Cooper does not live on the bottom floor. Fletcher does not live on either the top or the bottom floor. Miller lives on a higher floor than does Cooper. Smith does not live on a floor adjacent to Fletcher’s. Fletcher does not live on a floor adjacent to Cooper’s. Where does everyone live?

This famous puzzle was first published by Life magazine on December 17, 1962. It has been variously attributed to both Albert Einstein and Lewis Carroll, but the true author is not known. There are several versions; this is the original from Life:

1 There are five houses.

2 The Englishman lives in the red house.

3 The Spaniard owns the dog.

4 Coffee is drunk in the green house.

5 The Ukrainian drinks tea.

6 The green house is immediately to the right of the ivory house.

7 The Old Gold smoker owns snails.

8 Kools are smoked in the yellow house.

9 Milk is drunk in the middle house.

10 The Norwegian lives in the first house.

11 The man who smokes Chesterfields lives in the house next to the man with the fox.

12 Kools are smoked in the house next to the house where the horse is kept.

13 The Lucky Strike smoker drinks orange juice.

14 The Japanese smokes Parliaments.

15 The Norwegian lives next to the blue house.

In the interest of clarity, it must be added that each of the five houses is painted a different color, and their inhabitants are of different national extractions, own different pets, drink different beverages and smoke different brands of American cigarettes.

Your task is to write a program to solve the puzzle and determine: Who drinks water? Who owns the zebra? When you are finished, you are welcome to read or run a suggested solution, or to post your own solution or discuss the exercise in the comments below.

John McCarthy, who discovered Lisp, attributes this puzzle to Hans Freudenthal:

We pick two numbers a and b, so that 99 ≥ a ≥ b ≥ 2. We tell Mr. P. the product a × b and Mr. S. the sum a + b. Then Mr. S. and Mr. P. engage in the following dialog:

Mr. P.: I don’t know the numbers.

Mr. S.: I knew you didn’t know. I don’t know either.

Mr. P.: Now I know the numbers.

Mr. S.: Now I know them too.

Find the numbers a and b.

Your task is to find the two numbers. When you are finished, you are welcome to read or run a suggested solution, or to post your solution or discuss the exercise in the comments below.
